#summary GearmanClient Summary

= Introduction =

The GearmanClient is the client class for the Gearman distributed job system, providing a framework for sending jobs to one or more Gearman job servers. These jobs are then distributed out to a farm of workers.

= Job Server =

The purpose of a GearmanClient is to submit jobs to gearman job servers. To do this, we need to tell the client what servers it may communicate with.

== Local Communication ==

To submit jobs to servers running in the local address space, we use the following method.

{{{
boolean addServer(GearmanServer srvr)
}}}

This method adds a local GearmanServer instance to the list of job servers the client may submit jobs to. Packets are passed directly to jobs servers specified  with this method, lowering latency.

_Paramiters_
  * srvr: The job server running in the local address space

_Return Value_
  * true if and only if the local server was added to the list of job servers to submit jobs to

_Usage Example_
{{{
private final GearmanClient client = ...

public void addLocalServer(GearmanServer server) {
   // Allow the client to communicate with the local server
   client.addServer(server);
}
}}}
== Remote Communication ==

To submit jobs to job servers on the network, we use the following method.
{{{
boolean addServer(InetSocketAddress adrs)
}}}

This method adds the given address to the list of servers the client may submit jobs to. Communication with remote job servers are done using the gearman protocol over a TCP connection.

== Get Server Count ==
{{{
int getServerCount()
}}}

To get the total number of servers, we use the "getServerCount" method.